whoever loves instruction loves
knowledge but he who hates correction is
stupid a good man obtains favor from the
Lord but a man of wicked intentions he
will condemn a man is not established by
wickedness but the root of the righteous
cannot be moved an excellent wife is the
crown of her husband but she who causes
shame is like rottenness in his bones
the thoughts of the righteous are right
but the counsels of the wicked are
deceitful the words of the wicked are
lie in wait for blood but the mouth of
the upright will deliver them
the wicked are overthrown and are no
more but the house of the righteous will
stand a man will be commended according
to his wisdom but he who is of a
perverse heart will be despised better
is the one who is slighted but has a
servant then he who honors himself but
lacks bread a righteous man regards the
life of his animal but the tender
mercies of the wicked are cruel he who
tells his land will be satisfied with
bread but he who follows frivolity is
devoid her understanding the wicked
covets the catch of evil men but the
root of the righteous yields fruit the
wicked is ensnared by the transgression
of his lips but the righteous will come
through trouble a man will be satisfied
with good by the fruit of his mouth
and the recompense of a man's hands will
be rendered to him the way of a fool is
right in his own eyes but he who heeds
counsel is wise a fools wrath is known
at once but a prudent man covers shame
he who speaks truth declares
righteousness but a false witness deceit
there is one who speaks like the
piercings of a sword but the tongue of
the wise promotes health the truthful
lip shall be established forever but a
lying tongue is but for a moment deceit
is in the heart of those who devise evil
but counsellors of peace have joy no
grave trouble will overtake the
righteous but the wicked shall be filled
with evil lying lips are an abomination
to the Lord but those who deal
truthfully are his delight a prudent man
conceals knowledge but the heart of
fools proclaims foolishness the hand of
the diligent will rule but the lazy man
will be put to forced labor
anxiety in the heart of man causes
depression but a good word makes it bad
the righteous should choose his friends
carefully for the way of the wicked
leads them astray the lazy man does not
roast what he took in hunting the
diligence his man's precious possession
in the way of righteousness is life and
in its pathway there is no death
[Music]